==> EKS- Elastic Kubenetes Service
--------------------------------------
           It is managed by the aws providers so its managed K8s cluster. 
*Controlpane (master) completely managed by AWS. 
* EKS is the best place to run k8s applications bcoz of its security, reliability and scalability. 
* EKS can be integrated with manay other AWS services such as ELB, Amazon CloudWatch, AutoScaling Group, IAM, VPC, Providing you a seamless experiance to monitor, laod balance your 
application. 
* make it easy for us to K8s on AWS without needing to install, operate and manitain your own k8s control plane. 

=> Managed control plane: AWS EKS provides a scalable and high available control plane that runs across multiple AWS availability zones. Ths aws eks service automatocally manages 
the scalability and availability of the k8s API servers and etcd persistence layer of each cluster. AWS EKS runs the k8s cotrol plane across 3 availabilirty zones in order to ensure 
high availability and it detects  and replaces unhealthy masters. 

-> Diff ways to set up EKS cluster: 
1) AWS managed console
2) Terraform
3) eksctl utility provided by AWS

==> Step by Step procedure using AWS console:
    -----------------------------------------
1) Create a IAM (Identity and access management)Role for EKS Cluster. - we should have admin/permissions to crete a role. 
       EKS-Cluster

IAM Dashboard - Roles - create Role - AWS service- Choose a use case - EKS - EKS Cluster (i am giving a permission to IAM role to manage EKS)- Name - create a Role. 

2) Create a dedicated VPC for EKS Cluster. using Cloud Formation. https://amazon-eks.s3.us.west-2.amazonaws.com/cloudformation/2020-04-21/amazon-eks-vpc-private-subnets.yaml

cloud formation - Create stack - 

3) Create Cluster:           

EKS - Clssters- Create Cluster - Name: EKS Demo - Kubenetes Version: 1.28 (should not use latest verison it may have some errors/defects. so we use old versions) use Default one
- Cluster Version Role: EKS_Cluster_Role - Tags - Next - 

VPC - Default one
Security Group: Default  (If we have VPC then we have to selecet that one)
Cluster End Point Access: 
   1) Public
   2) Private and Public - Selet this one
   3) Private - In rea tie we use this. When i dot want that kubectl command executed from internet. i mean diff network servers. 
Network Add-ons: we use Weave Network while instaling K8s in server. si like that aws has its own network. it selected by default - Next
Configure observability- control plane logging- leave them as deselected. dont select any one bcoz chargable ones- Next and crete a cluster. 













